Streaming data from Kafka has many benefits
because Kafka allows you to build real-time streaming
data pipelines in applications and get data
reliably between many applications in micro services.
As we learned from the previous course,
one of the aspects that we have to consider when building
Kafka application is how to handle lags between events.
Here we'll go through a common way of managing lags using
Kafka offset when developing a Kafka Spark integrated application.
Before managing the offsets,
let's talk about some storage options for storing offsets.
You can manage and store offsets in external data stores like these,
checkpoints, HBase, ZooKeeper and Kafka.
A Kafka topic receives messages and then each partition
keeps the messages it received in a sequential order like a Q.
We can set this spark application to read from
the earliest Kafka topic at the beginning of
the data stream or from the latest where it left off.
This diagram shows a common pipeline
for offset management in Spark streaming application.
You can tweak the services here to fit your business
needs but most of it will follow this common regime.
This is the initialization of D-Stream or structures dream in Spark application.
The messages from Kafka are then read and processed.
After processing, the results can be stored as well as offsets.
Any external data source such as HBase, Kafka,
HDFS and ZooKeeper are used to keep track of which messages have already been processed.
Different scenarios or micro services can be incorporated
into the above steps depending upon your business requirements.
Sparks programmatic flexibility allows users to control
a store offsets before or after periodic phases and we call that intervals of processing.